CHAMPAGNE

1957. Will certainly be shipped as a vintage,
despite a pitifully small crop. The frost of
May, 1957, was disastrous, and the total pro-
duction amounted to less than a quarter of the
Champagne sold during the twelve months
preceding the vintage. The quality was well
above average — it is too early to say more.
1956. Very poor. Under 10/20.

1955. Great. Full-bodied wines somewhat re-
sembling the 1953s, but on the whole perhaps
better balanced. 17/20.

1954. Fair. Will not carry a vintage, although
a few vineyards produced wines rather more
than passable. 12/20.

1953. Highly touted and extravagantly
praised, especially just at the beginning by the
small vineyard owners, it seems less and less
likely to fulfill its early promise, and must
now, as the first of its wines come on the
market, definitely be classed as below 1952 in
quality. Its wines are very full, very high in
alcohol; they seem to lack distinction and
grace, and these are qualities which Cham-
pagnes rarely acquire as they grow older. A
great year, but not an especially attractive
wine. 16/20.

1952. A very great year, certainly the best
of the past two decades, quite comparable to
that so-called “incomparable” year, 1928. The
wines seem to have everything — great class,
bouquet, a nice equilibrium of lightness and
body, a charm which makes them immediately
engaging and other qualities which would
seem to assure them long life. 19/20 as a
minimum.

1951. Very poor. 7/20.

1950. Good. Many wines of finesse and breed
were produced though few carried a vintage.
Now 14/20.

1949. Great. Sound, rarely extraordinary but
extremely well-balanced wines which have de-
veloped well, as such wines often do. Will
hardly improve further but should remain on
their present high plateau of excellence for
several years at least. 17/20.

1948. Fair. At best 11/20.

1947. A great year — except for a few pre-
cious survivors, now on the decline. Full-
bodied, soft wines that matured early. 13/20
to. 16/20 today.

1946. Fair. Now off the market. 10/20.
1945. Matured quickly, grew old quickly. No
longer interesting. 10/20.

LOIRE VALLEY

1957. A disastrous frost struck the Loire Val-
ley in May, 1957, and in most areas no wine
at all was harvested. In a few fortunate dis-
tricts such as Quincy, the crop was extremely
small, but the wine outstanding — at least
17726:

1956. Uneven, but in some sections surpris-
ingly good — wines that are fruity, light, with
good bouquet, perhaps a bit tart.°12/20 to
14/20.

1955. A very great year. Typical, charming
wines, admirably balanced, fruity, racy, not
too sweet. 18/20.

1954. Fair. 12/20.

1953. Great. Ripe, soft white wines now al-
most unprocurable. Red Loires outstanding.
17/20.

 
